Comments on the manuscript:
Introduction – first paragraph (ending after "...revealing patterns in computational demands, reliability, performance, user behavior, and data modeling decisions").
 I would add the following sentence to the end of this paragraph: "These insights constitute usage metadata about the KG, complementing conventional descriptions of its structure and content with evidence of how it is accessed in practice."

Introduction – terminology paragraph (definition of "individual").
 I would put this sentence before the definition of the individual: "We refer to the set of distinct types and predicates of a KG as its schema elements."

Introduction – terminology paragraph (definition of "syntactic usage").
 Replace "syntactic usage" with "explicit usage" to avoid confusion with query grammar.

Introduction – terminology paragraph (discussion contrasting explicit and semantic usage).
 I would remove all dashes (---) all over the paper.

Introduction – paragraph describing previous work and contributions.
 Replace "relations" with "predicates" to be consistent with the concepts we defined in the earlier paragraph.

Introduction – paragraph beginning "In this study, we extend prior work...".
 This sentence “The output of this analysis can be termed "usage metadata".” can be removed as we just added this sentence to the end of the first paragraph: "These insights constitute usage metadata about the KG, complementing conventional descriptions of its structure and content with evidence of how it is accessed in practice."

Introduction – contribution describing the preprocessing pipeline.
 Preliminary work \cite{mohammadi2024analyzing} also does this preprocessing. In this contribution section we list the contribution relative to preliminary work \cite{mohammadi2024analyzing}, so I think we should only mention the work that does not intersect with preliminary work… So my suggestion is to exactly point to the improvement in the preprocessing, e.g to extract the http parameter we used all possible parameters rather than using a list of keywords…

Introduction – contribution section:  I suggest avoiding detailed empirical findings in the contributions section. This section should primarily describe the paper's methodological and conceptual contributions (what was done), 


Introduction – contribution on size-controlled comparison of organic vs. robotic coverage.
 Please clarify what "size" and "equal sampling effort" mean here. The rarefaction analysis equalizes the number of schema-element occurrences, not the number of queries, so "differences in query volume" is potentially misleading. Also, "disentangling genuine behavioral differences" is too strong, since rarefaction controls for sample size but does not by itself prove that the remaining difference is behavioral. Consider revising this to say that the analysis tests whether coverage differences persist after controlling for the number of observed schema-element occurrences.

 The paragraph starting with “Among the many KGs available through LSQ,...”, its last sentence seems to be redundant so I suggest removing: “, and we relate coverage to this sampling effort explicitly in Section~\ref{s4}.”

The paragraph starting with “What counts as a ``class'' in Wikidata --- and how it is used.}} Bio2RDF follows a classical”...:  in this paragraph the claim: this is a measurement issue specific to item-based KGs” is too strong, specially there is no citation for it. using the word "item-based KGs" is abrupt, its not defined properly…

 The paragraph starting with: “Next, we normalize the queries for parsing…”
Remove the sentence “which earlier processing overlooked.” 

the sentence "we parse the queries using the 'sparqljs"... claims that the code uses sparqljs, however after investigating the code repository it seems that rdflib, sparqljs both could be used ... can you clarify which one is used for the analysis?

The paragraph starting with “We can bound this divergence directly. In the 2017 organic queries,...” this sentence lacks the KG name, it should be: "In the 2017 organic queries of Wikidata, ..."

Section Preprocessing SPARQL Queries: earlier pipline is vague! I sugesst to cite the earlier workshop paper mohammadi2024analyzing, and  instead of robotic query example (i.e. robotic~2019, 1{,}034{,}831 vs.\ 627{,}314) use Bio2RDF all log2019, which is the same dataset used in mohammadi2024analyzing.

Section Preprocessing SPARQL Queries, here we should not talk about the parsing defects, which is response to the reviewers: remove the sentence “ The LSQ-sourced Bio2RDF~2013 and the Dresden-sourced Wikidata logs were cleanly extracted and reproduced closely (validity rates of 99.8\% and $>$99.9\% respectively), confirming that the parsing defect was specific to the raw Bio2RDF~2019 server logs and does not affect the schema-coverage results, which are computed over the same valid queries.”

Table 3: Please remove this part “The Bio2RDF~2019 rows change substantially relative to earlier processing because appended HTTP parameters (notably \texttt{\&callback}) had previously caused many valid queries to be rejected; the LSQ-sourced (Bio2RDF~2013) and Dresden-sourced (Wikidata) logs were already cleanly extracted and reproduce." from the caption of the table as it is already mentioned in the text.

Terminology in \subsection{Size-Controlled Coverage: Is the Organic/Robotic Gap a Sampling Artifact?} . Consider using "coverage gap" instead of simply "gap" for greater precision and consistency. 

subsection{Size-Controlled Coverage: Is the Organic/Robotic Gap a Sampling Artifact?} replace this "To separate a genuine behavioral" with a more precise statment e.g, we can say "To assess whether the observed difference persists after controlling for sampling effort, we treat each occurrence of a schema element in a log as an ``individual'' and apply individual-based rarefaction."

subsection{Size-Controlled Coverage: Is the Organic/Robotic Gap a Sampling Artifact?} The sentence is awkwardly constructed: "As a complementary, sampling-size-independent check we also computed the Chao1 richness estimator \cite{chao1984nonparametric}; it points the same way l'' and apply individual-based rarefaction." I suggest the following: As a complementary estimate of total schema richness, we also computed the Chao1 richness estimator [11], which leads to the same conclusion

The paragraph starting with “This size dependence…. The sentence:”In practical terms, robotic ``coverage'' on a very large KG such as Wikidata largely reflects query volume and a long tail of one-off references, whereas on a compact KG such as Bio2RDF it reflects systematic, repeated traversal of the schema.” This conclusion should be stated more cautiously. The results concern Wikidata and Bio2RDF specifically and should not be generalized to all large or compact KGs. The analysis also does not establish that KG size itself explains the difference; other characteristics of the datasets, users, or query workloads may be responsible.

paragraph{\textbf{Validity of the extracted classes.}} the sentence: ”i.e.\ they were \emph{intentionally} modelled as classes --- and manual inspection of the remainder finds mostly genuine but rare concepts and taxa (e.g.\ \emph{Quercus velutina}, \emph{Pinales}, \emph{ghat}) rather than errors; outright noise (e.g.\ a disambiguation item) is rare. The data-glitch risk the metric inherits is therefore real but small, and concentrated in an uninstantiated long tail that actual query demand largely avoids.” this is difficult to interpret and seems overly compressed. Consider replacing it with: “Thus, data-quality issues may slightly affect the metric, but the effect appears limited and is concentrated among rare, uninstantiated classes that are seldom queried.” Also, please clarify the use of “taxa,” since the examples appear to mix biological taxa with non-taxonomic concepts (e.g. “ghat” is not a taxon; it is a geographic term.

The paragraph starting with “Restricting to the 115{,}420 organic queries …”. The sentence:  difference that is genuine, not a size artifact. "Genuine, not a size artifact" is stronger than what the analysis establishes. Rarefaction controls for differences in sampling effort but does not rule out other explanations. Consider saying that the difference persists after controlling for sampling effort.

The paragraph starting with “Restricting to the 115{,}420 organic queries …”. The sentence: The most plausible explanation is… Consider using more cautious wording (e.g., "One possible explanation is..." or "This may reflect...").

The paragraph starting with “Restricting to the 115{,}420 organic queries …”. The sentence:  This both removes the paper's earlier inability to split the 2013 log and adds a temporal organic comparison that reinforces the central rarefaction message: raw coverage tracks sampling effort, and only an equal-effort comparison exposes genuine behavioral or architectural differences.  This sentence is difficult to follow because it combines multiple contributions and conclusions. Consider splitting it into separate sentences describing (i) the new 2013 organic/robotic split and (ii) the temporal comparison. A better wording would be: Raw coverage is strongly affected by sampling effort; equal-effort comparisons provide a fairer basis for comparing query behavior. Also conclusion is stated too strongly. Equal-effort comparisons control for differences in sampling effort, but they do not by themselves establish that the remaining differences are behavioral or architectural. Consider using more cautious wording.

\paragraph{\textbf{Schema-version robustness.}} Why are different schema definitions used for the historical releases and the 2024 Bio2RDF schema? The release statistics enumerate all predicates but only instantiated types, whereas the main analysis uses the paper’s type/predicate definition. Since coverage depends on the schema denominator, the same definition should ideally be applied across releases to make the results comparable.
\paragraph{\textbf{Schema-version robustness.}} The sentence:   schema substantially \emph{under}-recognizes historical vocabulary, replace \emph{under}-recognizes  with underestimates …

\paragraph{\textbf{Schema-version robustness.}} The sentence:  We retain the 2024-schema figures in Tables~\ref{tab:4} and~\ref{tab:5} for cross-period consistency and treat the version-matched recomputation as a robustness check; … I would remove the first reason "for cross-period consistency" as it is not convincing so I would say "We retain the 2024-schema figures in Tables~\ref{tab:4} and~\ref{tab:5} and treat the version-matched recomputation as a robustness check"

The ordering of the experiments/analysis is difficult to follow because the text repeatedly switches between general analyses, Bio2RDF-specific results, robustness checks, and Wikidata-specific interpretation(After introducing the calculation of schema coverage in Section 4.5, the paper moves to a Bio2RDF-specific paragraph, then to the general size-controlled analysis in Section 4.6, followed by a validity check, another Bio2RDF analysis in Section 4.7, a schema-version robustness discussion, and finally the Wikidata-specific analysis in Section 4.8.). I suggest grouping the general methods first—schema coverage followed by size-controlled coverage—and then presenting all Bio2RDF analyses together, including the 2013 log and schema-version robustness, before moving to the Wikidata-specific analysis. This would give the results a more natural progression and reduce the apparent jumps between datasets.

\subsection{What Wikidata Coverage Actually Measures:... the sentence: A schema-coverage metric implicitly assumes that an element counted as ``used'' is used \emph{as schema}. This sentence is awkward. consider rephrasing e.g. A schema-coverage metric assumes that counted schema elements are referenced as classes or predicates, rather than appearing as data values. or we could start:"Bio2RDF vocabulary classes are only referenced as classes, whereas Wikidata items frequently appear both as classes and as values."

The paragraph starting with “Table~\ref{tab:classvalue} shows the split.  …”. The sentence: Two readings follow…. rewrite by" These results have two implications".

The paragraph starting with “Table~\ref{tab:classvalue} shows the split.  …”. The sentence: “Second, this is itself a behavioral signal: humans reference type-items as values, while bots traverse them as classes”. … The conclusion that the observed class-/value-position split represents a behavioral signal appears too strong. The results demonstrate differences in the analyzed logs, but additional evidence would be needed to establish that these differences reflect general querying behavior rather than characteristics of this particular sample.

The paragraph starting with “The inversion is not idiosyncratic to individual classes  …”. The sentence: “he inversion is not idiosyncratic to individual classes but holds across natural \emph{domains}.” The claim that "the inversion ... holds across natural domains" seems stronger than the evidence presented in Table 10. The table shows a similar tendency after aggregating classes into a small number of domains, but this does not establish that the inversion generally holds across domains. Consider softening the wording (e.g., "a similar pattern is observed across the analyzed domains")

The paragraph starting with “The inversion is not idiosyncratic to individual classes  …”. The sentence: We assigned each class to a top-level domain by walking up its \texttt{wdt:P279} ancestry to a curated set of anchor classes, and compared each domain's share of KG content (instances) with its share of query demand (Table~\ref{tab:domains}).” 1. The terminology in this section is sometimes difficult to follow because the discussion alternates between classes, domains, and instances. In particular, "Supply (% instances)" refers to the proportion of Wikidata items whose classes belong to a given domain, not to the number of classes in that domain. Clarifying this explicitly, perhaps with a brief example, would make Table 10 much easier to interpret. 2. The presentation of this comparison was initially confusing because the term "demand" naturally suggests demand for entity instances, mirroring the KG content ("supply"), which is measured as the number of instances. However, the analysis appears to compare instance-level supply with class-level demand, that is, how frequently classes are referenced in queries relative to how many instances belong to those classes in the KG. This interpretation makes sense, as it addresses whether users query classes in proportion to the amount of data available under them and provides insight into the relationship between the KG's content distribution and the schema that users choose to query. I suggest making this rationale explicit before Table 10 to prevent readers from expecting an instance-to-instance comparison and to clarify how the supply-demand comparison should be interpreted.

Table 10.  reports the organic-demand-to-supply ratio but not the corresponding robotic-demand-to-supply ratio, even though the robotic percentages are shown. Including the robotic/supply ratio would make the comparison between organic and robotic demand more symmetric and easier to interpret. If there is a reason for omitting it, this should be explained.

\paragraph{\textbf{Generality across modeling styles: DBpedia.} the sentence: “ A natural objection is that this value-position inflation is an artifact of Wikidata's particular conventions, or simply of its scale, rather than of the item-based modeling style as such. “ I am not convinced by this justification, I sugesst writing something like: "An alternative explanation is that the observed value-position usage is specific to Wikidata's modeling conventions, or size..."

\paragraph{\textbf{Generality across modeling styles: DBpedia.} the sentence: “ The value-only fraction thus tracks the \emph{data model}, not KG size:” this is a strong claim, replace it with : "These results suggest that the value-only fraction is more closely associated with the data model than with KG size."

\paragraph{\textbf{Generality across modeling styles: DBpedia.} the sentence: “ The phenomena we report are therefore not Wikidata-specific.” I'd write: These findings indicate that the phenomenon is not unique to Wikidata.

The paragraph starting with “These observations reframe the coverage results for Wikidata: a single ``schema coverage'' percentage, borrowed from the OWL-style Bio2RDF setting, conflates class usage with value usage on an item-based KG. A faithful figure restricts to class-position references over instantiated classes; the residual --- and more informative --- story is the structural mismatch between a KG's instantiated content and actual query demand, which holds across both modeling styles. We return to the implications in Section~\ref{s5}.” — I found this paragraph difficult to follow. In particular, the sentence beginning "A faithful figure..." appears to combine two distinct conclusions: (i) restricting schema coverage to class-position references, and (ii) the mismatch between instantiated KG content and query demand. These are separate findings and would be clearer if presented independently. Additionally, the phrase "A faithful figure" seems overly definitive; "a more faithful estimate" would better reflect the evidence presented. I'd write:"Restricting coverage to class-position references provides a more faithful estimate of schema usage. In addition, our analysis reveals a broader pattern: regardless of modeling style, the distribution of instantiated content differs substantially from the classes that users actually query."

\subsubsection{Frequency Distribution of Schema Elements}. The dataset name in this section does not fully align with the defined template that was introduced earlier in dataset retrival section: \emph{KG-agenttype-period[-interval] (KG version)}...

\subsubsection{Frequency Distribution of Schema Elements}.  The sentence:”Plot C (Bio2RDF robotic log2019\_kg2024) demonstrates a higher maximum frequency, with a log count approaching 4, “ Plot A (Bio2RDF All log2013\_kg2024) exhibits a more gradual decline in schema element usage compared to Plot B (Bio2RDF All log2019\_kg2024). Plot C (Bio2RDF robotic log2019\_kg2024) demonstrates a higher maximum frequency, with a log count approaching 4, whereas Plot D (Bio2RDF organic log2019\_kg2024) peaks at around 2. This contrast highlights the greater intensity of schema element usage in Bio2RDF robotic queries.

\paragraph{\textbf{Adoption of newly introduced schema elements.}} The motivation for the paragraph on the adoption of newly introduced schema elements feels rather abrupt. The statement that "the rank shifts above raise a complementary question" does not clearly establish why the preceding ranking analysis naturally leads to studying the adoption of newly introduced schema elements. Although the adoption analysis is interesting and provides useful insight into how newly added vocabulary is reflected in query usage, its connection to the preceding discussion is not sufficiently motivated. I suggest either adding a stronger transition that explains why this analysis follows from the ranking results and how it contributes to the paper's overall narrative, or moving it to a separate subsection. If such a connection cannot be clearly established, omitting this paragraph may provide a more coherent flow.

\paragraph{\textbf{Example-query contamination, measured and bounded.}}The opening phrase “A natural worry” is somewhat informal and does not immediately state the analytical question. I suggest beginning with the validity threat being tested and the method used to assess it—for example: “To assess whether example queries inflate the observed schema-usage statistics, we measured their prevalence in the organic log and evaluated their effect on coverage and frequency results.” This would give the paragraph a clearer scientific structure: research question, method, result, and conclusion.

The paragraph starting with “ This measurement also corrects a tempting …” 1.This paragraph shifts rather abruptly from validating the effect of example-query contamination to discussing the female/male case. Consider adding a clearer transition that explains why this case follows from the preceding analysis, for example, by stating that it illustrates how example-query traffic can affect the interpretation of highly ranked schema types. This would improve the flow and make the relevance of the example immediately clear. 2. The phrase "This measurement also corrects a tempting but misleading anecdote" is unclear because the anecdote is not explicitly stated. It would help to first remind the reader that female (Q6581072) appears among the most frequently queried schema types (Fig. 9), which may suggest an unusually large asymmetry relative to male. Stating this observation explicitly before explaining why it is misleading would make the motivation for the example much clearer. 3. The discussion of the female/male asymmetry appears to rely on two separate explanations: first, the influence of example queries, and second, an apparent mistake in which female (Q6581072) is compared against Q6581080 instead of the correct male (Q6581097) item. However, the origin of this second claim is unclear. Is this an error identified by the authors in their own analysis, a common misconception, or a finding reported elsewhere? As written, it appears abruptly and is unsupported. If this observation comes from prior work, it should be cited; if it is a novel finding of this study, the manuscript should briefly explain how it was discovered and why it is relevant. 4. The final sentence provides a useful illustration of the class-extraction caveat. Consider introducing it more explicitly (e.g., "More importantly, this example illustrates..."), so that the paragraph ends by reinforcing the methodological point rather than the anecdote.

Figure 9. 1. I noticed that the visualization differs from the previous manuscript in two respects. First, the x-axis now presents total counts on a logarithmic scale, whereas the previous version plotted the logarithm of the counts directly. Second, several bar lengths appear to differ slightly from those in the earlier figure. After inspecting regenerate_figures.py, it appears that the figure is regenerated using the same *_combined_schema_elements.csv files as the previous pipeline. Given that the improved preprocessing recovered substantially more valid queries—especially for the Bio2RDF datasets—I expected the frequency analyses to be based on newly generated schema-element datasets. Instead, the code appears to reuse the previous schema-element data, making it unclear why the updated preprocessing is not propagated to the frequency results. 2. I found the previous version of this figure (Fig. 7 in the earlier manuscript submitted to semantic web journal) more informative. In particular, it displayed the natural names of Wikidata classes alongside their identifiers (e.g., human (Q5) rather than only Q5), making the plots much easier to read. It also highlighted common schema classes across paired datasets using bold labels, which made comparisons between corresponding plots more immediate. I suggest restoring these presentation features, as they substantially improve the figure's readability. 

paragraph{\textbf{Pairwise Schema Type Usage of Bio2RDF.}} 1. I found the result section "Pairwise Schema Type Usage of Bio2RDF. "difficult to follow because it introduces the results before clearly reminding the reader of the underlying concept and motivation. I suggest moving a brief explanation of pairwise schema type usage from Section 3.6.2 into the beginning of this section. In particular, it would help to first explain that Bio2RDF is organized into interconnected subgraphs, that this enables an analysis of cross-subgraph schema-type relationships in queries, and that this analysis is specific to Bio2RDF because Wikidata does not have an explicit subgraph structure. This would provide the necessary context before presenting the results. Overall, I think this section would benefit from a clearer narrative that first motivates why this analysis is performed, then explains what is being measured, and finally presents the results. 2. It was not immediately clear how the reported increase from 3 to 22 distinct cross-subgraph join patterns is obtained from Figure 10. I suggest stating explicitly that these values correspond to the number of non-zero cells (i.e., distinct observed subgraph-pair patterns) in the heatmaps. This would make the relationship between the figure and the reported statistics much easier to understand.

\subsubsection{Which Queries Reach Rare Classes}. 1. The comparison with Asprino et al.'s query-template analysis is helpful for positioning the work, but the motivation for using a much coarser representation is not clearly explained. The manuscript states that predicate co-occurrence signatures ignore joins, variables, filters, and aggregation, but it does not explain why this simplification is appropriate for the present research question. I suggest briefly motivating this design choice (e.g., We use this simpler representation because our goal is to study how schema predicates co-occur in queries, rather than to classify complete query structures OR we could say:Although this representation ignores structural query features, it preserves the schema interactions that are the focus of this study.). This would make the comparison with Asprino's method more meaningful. 2. The manuscript acknowledges that predicate co-occurrence signatures are only a reproducible proxy for “kind of query” and are not equivalent to Asprino et al.’s templates. However, the reason for choosing this coarser proxy remains somewhat implicit. I suggest adding one sentence explaining why it is appropriate for the present analysis, for example, because the research question concerns schema-predicate combinations rather than complete query structure. 3. when reading "the pooled Wikidata organic windows" it is not clear which window or windows of Wikidata logs is used for this analysis!

The paragraph starting with “Query volume is concentrated in a modest number of signatures: ..” I am not convinced by the cross-KG comparison in this paragraph. Bio2RDF and Wikidata differ substantially in schema size, modeling style, and overall complexity, making the absolute number of predicate signatures difficult to compare directly. Moreover, the interpretation that the observed difference is "consistent with a broad encyclopedic schema versus a compact biomedical one" is not supported by the presented evidence and appears speculative. I suggest either avoiding this cross-KG interpretation.

The paragraph starting with “The substantive finding is that \emph{rare classes are reached through less-popular queries}.” the sentence:”Because a class's frequency mechanically lower-bounds the popularity of any signature containing it, we checked that this is not an artifact” — 1. The argument in this paragraph is difficult to follow because the relationship between class frequency and signature popularity is not explained explicitly. In particular, it is unclear what is meant by the "popularity of a signature" in this context and why a class's frequency is said to mechanically constrain it. I suggest introducing the quantities being compared more explicitly before presenting the validation that the observed association is not an arithmetic artifact. 2. I found this paragraph (starting with The substantive finding is that \emph{rare classes are reached through less-popular queries}. ...)) difficult to follow because it introduces several pieces of evidence (correlation, extreme examples, the arithmetic dependency between class and signature frequencies, and popularity ratios) before returning to the main conclusion. I suggest restructuring it around a clearer narrative: first state the main finding, then present the supporting evidence in a logical order, and finally explain why the observed association is not merely an arithmetic consequence of the definitions. In particular, the sentence beginning "Because a class's frequency mechanically lower-bounds..." is hard to parse and would benefit from a simpler explanation of the underlying intuition before introducing the supporting statistics. More generally, the paragraph would benefit from separating the result ("rare classes are reached through less-popular query signatures") from the validation that this is not an artifact. Presenting these as two distinct steps would make the argument considerably easier to follow.

Consider adding a subsection with title Usag metadata, then next analysis which is the "Utility: Usage Metadata Forecasts " should be subsubsection of  this. \subsection{Utility: Usage Metadata Forecasts Demand Better Than KG Content} The attempt to demonstrate the practical utility of the generated usage metadata is valuable. However, the experiment is framed too broadly relative to what is actually evaluated. First, the choice of KG supply (instances per class) as the baseline requires stronger justification. It is not clear why class prevalence should be expected to predict query demand, particularly for Wikidata, where much of the content is added through decentralized contributions and bulk imports rather than according to anticipated usage. This is also somewhat at odds with the paper’s earlier finding that content supply and query demand are misaligned. Second, the analysis is based on a single KG and one temporal split (2017–2018), so the results show that historical usage can be predictive in this setting, but do not support a general claim that usage metadata forecasts demand. Either additional KGs or time periods should be evaluated, or the conclusions should be qualified accordingly. Finally, the evaluation reports only the fraction of future demand covered by the top-k classes. Since the proposed application is autocomplete, a ranking-sensitive evaluation or an explanation of why coverage alone is sufficient would strengthen the analysis.

The paragraph starting with “To quantify the overall usage of a KG,...” The conclusions in this paragraph are broader than the evidence supports. The analysis compares only Bio2RDF and Wikidata, so it can establish that the size-controlled patterns differ between these two KGs, but it cannot show that compact or specialized KGs generally behave like Bio2RDF, or that large KGs generally behave like Wikidata. Statements such as “the conclusion is KG-dependent” and the final contrast between “a small specialized KG” and “a very large one” risk turning two case-study observations into a general rule based on KG scale. I suggest keeping the interpretation tied explicitly to the analyzed datasets—for example, stating that Bio2RDF, a relatively compact biomedical KG, retained a robotic–organic coverage difference at equal effort, whereas Wikidata did not

The paragraph starting with “A further difference between the two query types is..” This paragraph feels out of place in the discussion, as it focuses primarily on parsing quality, log contamination, and engine-specific syntax rather than the paper's main contributions on schema usage and query behavior. I suggest moving this material to the preprocessing or results section, where it would fit more naturally. The paragraph would also benefit from restructuring, as it currently combines several distinct topics (non-SPARQL contamination, syntactically invalid queries, vendor-specific syntax, parser validation, and behavioral interpretation) into a single discussion. Finally, the interpretation should be kept specific to the analyzed Bio2RDF logs rather than generalized to human versus robotic querying, since the observed differences may also reflect characteristics of the traffic source (e.g., public endpoint usage, spam, and interactive querying) rather than an inherent distinction between humans and automated clients.

This sentence: “This substantial increase in federated querying indicates an enhanced emphasis on integrating multiple datasets over time, likely driven by improved accessibility, such as the shift from multiple query endpoints in 2013 to a unified endpoint in 2019.” — Using "enhanced emphasis" is not the best way to write it, rephrase.

This sentence: “ In conclusion, the findings offer a detailed understanding of KG usage patterns and present valuable guidance for refining KG design and query strategies to better address user needs.” — Instead of saying In conclusion I would say Together ... and would provide a concise finding summary.

The paragraph starting with “ Comparability of the two KGs.” the sentence:”For the within-Wikidata temporal comparison we additionally verified the two-endpoint result against seven consecutive equal-length “ — The term "two-endpoint result" is somewhat confusing here I suggest using the word two intervals, clarifying that the original analysis compared the 2017 and 2018 intervals.

The paragraph starting with “ \emph{Schema coverage does not transfer cleanly from an OWL-style KG to an item-based one.}” this part of paragraph:”A third KG, DBpedia, isolates the cause: it is as large and broad as Wikidata but OWL-style like Bio2RDF, and only 6.5\% of its queried classes are value-only (Table~\ref{tab:generality}), with the same content--demand inversion (heavily instantiated \emph{Tenure}/\emph{WikimediaTemplate} unqueried; demand on \emph{Place}/\emph{Person}/\emph{Film}). Value-position inflation therefore follows the \emph{modeling style}, not KG size or breadth, and the inversion generalizes across both styles.”----- 1. Instead of "isolates the cause" I would say isolates the size effect". we dont use the word cause as we have not prove its the cause! so we clearly mention what we isolated: size… 2. As I mentined before in the respective section of paper,  its a broad conclusion to say e.g. " Value-position inflation therefore follows th \emph{modeling style}, not KG size or breadth, and the inversion generalizes across both styles.", we only tested 2 or three KGs we cant make sure all KGs would behave the same, therfore we should always say for the specific KG we analysed it seems that that results was not related to size/schema style... or otherwise.

The paragraph starting with “\emph{Organic vs.\ robotic is a user-agent proxy, not a ground truth.}”  the sentence:”(the vendor-specific full-text and \texttt{OPTION} syntax concentrates in organic traffic; Section~\ref{s5}).”----in my previous comment I sugessted to move the paragraph in Section~\ref{s5} regarding "(the vendor-specific full-text and \texttt{OPTION} syntax concentrates in organic traffic;" should be moved to data retrival result section and concequently this text should be updated.

\section{Conclusion}, 1. the sentence: “reflects a genuine behavioral difference only for the compact Bio2RDF schema;”----soften this claim "reflects a genuine behavioral difference only for the compact Bio2RDF schema;" 2. The sentence:” A third KG, DBpedia, confirms that this value-position inflation tracks the modeling style (item-based vs.\ OWL) rather than KG size, while the content--demand inversion generalizes across both styles”----this conclusion is too broad, other Kgs are not tested, even though we do test other KGs there might be another KG which can behave differently, my point is that we can only make such a firm claim if we prove some thing mathematically. in this analysis we only report the observations and write down what we think they might sugesst! this claim should be written more cautiously: "A third KG, DBpedia, confirms that this value-position inflation tracks the modeling style (item-based vs.\ OWL) rather than KG size, while the content--demand inversion generalizes across both styles."

Results – Table 4 (Preprocessing SPARQL Queries): I am wondering why the number of unique valid normalized queries is not reported in Table 4. Since the manuscript explains the normalization (variable standardization) step earlier in the preprocessing pipeline, it would be natural to return to it in this results section and report its outcome. This would make the effect of the normalization step more explicit.

Section “Size-Controlled Coverage: Is the Organic/Robotic Gap a Sampling Artifact?” (sentence “and larger samples mechanically touch more vocabulary”): This statement seems inconsistent with the claim in the section “Robustness over equal-length intervals” that “More queries in a window do not expand coverage, which corroborates the rarefaction result.” The paper therefore appears to show that more queries do not necessarily correspond to the use of more vocabulary. Please clarify the relationship between these two statements or revise the wording to avoid an apparent contradiction. 




